# Dungeons and Dragons Initiative Tracker
This app helps Dungeons and Dragons parties keep track of their initiative order when they are in combat.

The application can be visited at https://dnd-initiative-5b4cf.web.app/

To view the application from either a player's or Dungeon Master's perspective, log in to lobby 999 after creating an account.

This app is meant to assist Dungeon and Dragons parties with keeping track of their turn order during combat. It utilizes Firebase as the backend database which requires user authentication and once authenticated, it allows users to update their characters and view other player's characters in real time. Once users have created an account they will find themselves on the home page. The home page will present users with three options: Join Most Recent Lobby, Join Existing Lobby, and Create a New Lobby. Joining the most recent lobby will check for cached data saved to the user's browser and automatically join the lobby if there is one saved. Joining an existing lobby will allow the user to enter their four digit lobby code that identifies the lobby the user intends to join, and save the lobby number to the user's browser, allowing them to use 'Join Most Recent Lobby' the next time they find themselves on the home page. Creating a new lobby will allow the user to create a fresh lobby and will automatically make the user who created the lobby the Dungeon Master, which means they will have a slightly different set of features than a user who signs in to the lobby as a player. Within the lobby, users will see the list of players which is sorted by initiative value by default. Users can then set the sorting value to sort by Hit Points, Damage, Armor Class, or Initiative value. As a player, users who want to add a character can click 'Add a Character' and fill out the character form. When they click 'Confirm' the app will stage the player to the database for the Dungeon Master to approve and then add to the game. Users who have already added a character will see an 'Edit this player' button on the bottom of their player card. As a Dungeon Master, users will be able to view and edit staged players, and add them to the game. Dungeon Masters are also able to edit any character on the list. Finally, Dungeon Masters can start and stop the turn timer which also starts and stops in real time for all the users logged into the game lobby. When the timer starts, the app will recognize which character's turn it is and restyle that character for the duration of their turn, also pushing these changes in real time to all users. At the end of the turn, it will style the active character back to normal and restyle the next character in the same way.
